OSDOCS-10396:ANP audit logging (#75310)
openshift/openshift-docs: networking/openshift_network_security/network-policy-apis.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="network-policy-apis"]
= Understanding network policy APIs
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: network-policy-apis

toc::[]

Kubernetes offers two features that users can use to enforce network security. One feature that allows users to enforce network policy is the `NetworkPolicy` API that is designed mainly for application developers and namespace tenants to protect their namespaces by creating namespace-scoped policies.

> The second feature is `AdminNetworkPolicy` which consists of two APIs: the `AdminNetworkPolicy` (ANP) API and the `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` (BANP) API. ANP and BANP are designed for cluster and network administrators to protect their entire cluster by creating cluster-scoped policies. Cluster administrators can use ANPs to enforce non-overridable policies that take precedence over `NetworkPolicy` objects. Administrators can use BANP to set up and enforce optional cluster-scoped network policy rules that are overridable by users using `NetworkPolicy` objects when necessary. When used together, ANP and BANP can create a multi-tenancy policy that administrators can use to secure their cluster.

Author: changed to multi-tentant isolation

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="network-policy-apis"]
= Understanding network policy APIs
include::_attributes/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: network-policy-apis

toc::[]

Kubernetes offers two features that users can use to enforce network security. One feature that allows users to enforce network policy is the `NetworkPolicy` API that is designed mainly for application developers and namespace tenants to protect their namespaces by creating namespace-scoped policies.

> The second feature is `AdminNetworkPolicy` which consists of two APIs: the `AdminNetworkPolicy` (ANP) API and the `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` (BANP) API. ANP and BANP are designed for cluster and network administrators to protect their entire cluster by creating cluster-scoped policies. Cluster administrators can use ANPs to enforce non-overridable policies that take precedence over `NetworkPolicy` objects. Administrators can use BANP to set up and enforce optional cluster-scoped network policy rules that are overridable by users using `NetworkPolicy` objects when necessary. When used together, ANP and BANP and network policy can create a multi-tenant isolation policy that administrators can use to secure their cluster.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The second feature is `AdminNetworkPolicy` which consists of two APIs: the `AdminNetworkPolicy` (ANP) API and the `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` (BANP) API. ANP and BANP are designed for cluster and network administrators to protect their entire cluster by creating cluster-scoped policies. Cluster administrators can use ANPs to enforce non-overridable policies that take precedence over `NetworkPolicy` objects. Administrators can use BANP to set up and enforce optional cluster-scoped network policy rules that are overridable by users using `NetworkPolicy` objects when necessary. When used together, ANP, BANP and network policy can achieve full multi-tenant isolation that administrators can use to secure their cluster.
```

> The second feature is `AdminNetworkPolicy` which consists of two APIs: the `AdminNetworkPolicy` (ANP) API and the `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` (BANP) API. ANP and BANP are designed for cluster and network administrators to protect their entire cluster by creating cluster-scoped policies. Cluster administrators can use ANPs to enforce non-overridable policies that take precedence over `NetworkPolicy` objects. Administrators can use BANP to set up and enforce optional cluster-scoped network policy rules that are overridable by users using `NetworkPolicy` objects when necessary. When used together, ANP, BANP, and network policy can achieve full multi-tenant isolation policy that administrators can use to secure their cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The second feature is `AdminNetworkPolicy` which consists of two APIs: the `AdminNetworkPolicy` (ANP) API and the `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` (BANP) API. ANP and BANP are designed for cluster and network administrators to protect their entire cluster by creating cluster-scoped policies. Cluster administrators can use ANPs to enforce non-overridable policies that take precedence over `NetworkPolicy` objects. Administrators can use BANP to set up and enforce optional cluster-scoped network policy rules that are overridable by users using `NetworkPolicy` objects when necessary. When used together, ANP, BANP, and network policy can achieve full multi-tenant isolation that administrators can use to secure their cluster.
```
Grammar nit

OVN-Kubernetes CNI in {product-title} implements these network policies using Access Control List (ACL) Tiers to evaluate and apply them. ACLs are evaluated in descending order from Tier 1 to Tier 3.

Tier 1 evaluates `AdminNetworkPolicy` (ANP) objects. Tier 2 evaluates `NetworkPolicy` objects. Tier 3 evaluates `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` (BANP) objects.

image::615_OpenShift_OVN-K_ACLs_0324.png[OVK-Kubernetes Access Control List (ACL)]

> ANPs are evaluated first. When the match is an ANP `allow` or `deny` rule, any existing `NetworkPolicy` and `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` (BANP) objects in the cluster are skipped from evaluation. When the match is an ANP `pass` rule, then evaluation moves from tier 1 of the ACL to tier 2 where the `NetworkPolicy` policy is evaluated. If no `NetworkPolicy` match the traffic then evaluation moves from tier 2 ACLs to tier 3 ACL where BANP is evaluated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ANPs are evaluated first. When the match is an ANP `allow` or `deny` rule, any existing `NetworkPolicy` and `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` (BANP) objects in the cluster are skipped from evaluation. When the match is an ANP `pass` rule, then evaluation moves from tier 1 of the ACL to tier 2 where the `NetworkPolicy` policy is evaluated. If no `NetworkPolicy` matches the traffic then evaluation moves from tier 2 ACLs to tier 3 ACLs where BANP is evaluated.
```
Grammar nits

> When traffic matches an ANP policy, the rules in that ANP are evaluated first. When the match is an ANP `allow` or `deny` rule, any existing `NetworkPolicy` and `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` (BANP) objects in the cluster are skipped from evaluation. When the match is an ANP `pass` rule, then evaluation moves from tier 1 of the ACL to tier 2 where the `NetworkPolicy` policy is evaluated. If no `NetworkPolicy` match the traffic then evaluation moves from tier 2 ACLs to tier 3 ACL where BANP is evaluated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ANPs are evaluated first. When the match is an ANP `allow` or `deny` rule, any existing `NetworkPolicy` and `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` (BANP) objects in the cluster are skipped from evaluation. When the match is an ANP `pass` rule, then evaluation moves from tier 1 of the ACL to tier 2 where the `NetworkPolicy` policy is evaluated. If no `NetworkPolicy` match the traffic then evaluation moves from tier 2 ACLs to tier 3 ACL where BANP is evaluated.
```

sorry this is better I guess because the traffic matches "the rule in an ANP" actually so if that rule is an allow, or deny or whatever then you have the rest of it correctly done.
I did a wrong suggestion before apologies.

Author: No need to apologize. You are a great interlocutor, thank you.

image::615_OpenShift_OVN-K_ACLs_0324.png[OVK-Kubernetes Access Control List (ACL)]

> When traffic matches the subject in an ANP, the rules in that ANP are evaluated first. When the match is an ANP `allow` or `deny` rule, any existing `NetworkPolicy` and `BaselineAdminNetworkPolicy` (BANP) objects in the cluster are skipped from evaluation. When the match is an ANP `pass` rule, then evaluation moves from tier 1 of the ACL to tier 2 where the `NetworkPolicy` policy is evaluated.

Author: added
